Notes:

Show How we can use SKIKO (SKIA) to do some high performance image processsing!
-> Show an image diff algorithm.

# Intro
Compose is a wonderful technology and some say its much more than just an UI framework.
But did you know that SKIA (or SKIKO, the Kotlin Bindings to SKIA) can be used
outside of Compose as well?

I recently fell in love with skiko and used it to build some high performance
image processing and you might have fun with it as well!

Let's start with an empty Kotlin project.
Using skiko requires two dependencies:
The 'skiko-awt' and the platform dependent 'awt-runtime'.

Yes, klibs.io shows us that we might want to copy/paste this snippet to
automatically get the platform, but this is just a YT video, so let me keep it
simple and just add the macos dependency for now.

We can sync the IDE and get started.
Here is what we're trying to build:
Let's build a screenshot comparison tool! We can produce two screenshots from
the Kotlin Conf app. Let's just change the speakers name typography for now!

We now have two screenshots:
'before' & and 'after' and we would like to build a tool which identifies
all parts of the image which are different and we want this to be f*in fast, right?


We create a 'imageCompare' Kotlin file and quickly define a run task to execute our code.

It's easy to read the 'before' and 'after' resources, but let me show you
how to create a 'Skia' Image.

We first create a 'Codec' from the ByteArray!
Then we can allocate a new Bitmap with the width and height of our pixels.
The N32 part, btw is the default color format which stores the pixel values as
'BGRA_8888'

We can read the pixels into this bitmap and then wrap the bitmap as Image!

If we provide an additional conversion function from 'Image' to Javas 'BufferedImage',
then we even have a convenient tool for viewing images in IntelliJ!


But, how can we now use this to our advantage for high performance computations?
Let me show you how we could use a 'shader' to compare these images effeciently!

We create a new 'compare' function, taking both Images as input parameters,
returning our comparison image!

A shader has to be written in a special shader language called GLSL,
(Skia uses a dialect called SKSL!)

Our input images will be passed through as shaders themselves
we delcare them using the 'uniform' keyword (making them available for each compuation).

We then have to declare our shader main function which
gets the coordintes for a given pixel it should compute.

In our simple case we can get the color value if
image a at x,y coordinates and the color value of b
and then return the absolute difference between those colors

In order to create our 'diff image',
we can use the 'RuntimeShaderBuilder' and use the  'RuntimeEffect.makeForShader'
to compile our shader code.

We then provide the input images,
create a result bitmap and allocate the pixels.

We add the shader to a paint object and draw it to canvas,
then returning the bitmap.

Let's call our method and look at the result!
And as expected: we see exactly those parts of the screenshot which differ!

This concept can be extended to many use cases:
If its 'edge detection', using custom Kernels or other algorithms.

If you want to use it to build fancy effects in your apps, then maybe
you want to checkout this blogpost 'is it vaporwave' from Maya.

Hope you enjoy Skiko; Have fun with Kotlin!
